big hello from Raleigh North Carolina
welcome to another episode of B2B
marketing and more with Pam yay today I
have be out Ravi and she is a ux design
researcher at Cash app who transitioned
into a ux research from marketing
several years ago she is here to share
how her diverse background in marketing
and strategy helps her shape her
perspective and working in ux research
so welcome via so happy to have you
thanks Pam it's so exciting to be here
all right awesome so I'm using a term
called ux so can you tell me what ux
stand for and also what you do at a cash
app as a ux design researcher and that's
a great question um one thing I do want
to say as we start this this talk is
that any views that I express today are
purely my own and they're not a
reflection or represent of my employer
so I'm bringing my perspective here to
you today about this field ux is a
acronym for user experience and so a lot
of the work I do is focused on how do
users or customers or anyone that is
interacting with a product what sort of
experience do they have or what sort of
experience do we want to bring to people
that will use a product so I actually
have a cash app I know many people do
and the cash app is so simple to use use
like if you want to transfer money you
can if you want to buy Bitcoin yay super
easy you just hit the buy button and you
can buy $500 you can buy $1,000 by the
way I'm not affiliated with cash app in
any possible way but I use it just
because the Simplicity and also the
intuitive design obviously I can tell
and just by looking a design I can say
the ux and design is actually part of
the product development I think so can
you tell us in terms of how you work
with the product development team to
develop safe features and also the user
requirement how do you bring your
experience and to the front end and also
the whole product life cycle that is a
great question Pam and I actually want
to take this even broader than just cash
app because the whole concept of ux and
where it belongs in an organization is
actually a really hot topic these days
um so the concept of research in
particular the or ux research is not
really a new field it's existed in
various forums over the last 20 years
you may have heard of people that do
things like human factors for example
true true have heard that yeah yes and
that's actually different name for the
work that happens in this field the
creation of this craft as a function in
itself called ux research design
research is is a bit newer and where it
lives really depends on the influence of
where the company wants um this
particular insight to live and um that
actually changes from company to company
so in some cases ux might ladder up into
product as you described but it can also
ladder up into design into strategy or
sometimes research even has its own
Standalone pillar in that case it will
have a seat at the executive table which
is really exciting but in terms of how
we consider features benefits and
different user requirements especially
when working with product that's
actually our entire job really that's AB
absolutely our entire job that is what
we do we spend time using different
types of research methodologies to
better understand our customers and our
users so that includes an understanding
of them attitudinally understanding
their mindset understanding their
behaviors and we take this information
and we put it into different types of
Frameworks to help companies and our
stakeholders within those companies
understand what our customer or our
users are like and how that might impact
the way that they want to do their work
and from that they take that information
and then business decisions are made so
in terms of something like the front end
and you describe like cash app and how
simple it is how easy to use it is a lot
of this actually has to do with the
design of a product so in research we
uncover the needs of our users and we
might classify them in different ways
one popular way of doing this type of
needs classification is something called
jobs to be done so that's where an
understanding of why a user has picked a
particular product to do a specific
thing is is evaluated and design is
essentially just the process of solving
problems I love the way you designed
that design is essentially solving
users's problem I love that quote I'm
going to use
that yes and you know it's really true
because I think when I first went into
this field I was like oh gosh like now
I'm going to be really aligned to design
and you know I can't draw worth a lick
and I'm not the type of fashion plate
that I thought would be in like a field
like design or am I really like AV on
guard or out there and you know I think
the really cool thing about design is
that's actually not what it's about it
really is about how do you solve
problems for people and how do you make
your product something useful to them
that's why there are Fields like service
design for example where you're actually
not even drawing anything you're
figuring out how processes work to solve
problems for users the workflow you
figure out what the workflow is and how
to serve your customers better and then
you add the design functionality on top
of it to bring that to life would you
agree exactly so like the images the
depictions and creative things you might
see in an app they're meant for the user
to be able to do something and we really
work closely from as a user researcher
we work closely with designers to help
them understand these needs and problems
so that they can create Solutions the
next question is do you follow the agile
approach in design and I know that agile
is actually like many of the software
company they have this very much
scrumped type of approach and they try
to build a feature very fast and they
they optimize and iterate optimize and
iterate over a period of time and make
it very very quick do you do the
something similar like that different
design teams that I've worked with use
different approaches so some do use
agile where there is quick definition of
product requirements and then various
Sprints associated with getting that
work done rapidly some actually don't so
I think one of the things that's really
been helpful especially in startups in
particular you know being Nimble and
being quick being able to adapt quickly
is really more important so that might
mean we use an an agile methodology to
be able to design something but we might
do something different too sometimes
might we'll do some parallel design work
on multiple options at the same time or
or different things and I'm not speaking
specifically about cash app but in
general what I've seen in the market
it's completely different based on the
company the needs what the the
preferences are I think our job as ux
research is to better understand the
requirements for the design team and
what information can be helpful to them
regardless of what stage that they are
at so are they at a stage where they're
going through rapid prototyping what
research methodologies will be most
helpful for them as they're going
through their Sprints what do they need
to know during their Sprints or maybe
even two sprints ahead and being able to
find that information and bring it
forward so that they can make the
decisions they need to make to be able
to design the best product possible so
it sounds like you work very closely
with the product team and also depends
on their needs are and your approach may
change depending on what they are doing
sometimes there might be a research
methodology that will give them a huge
deep breath of data and information
about our customer but we've got to
launch a product in two weeks so then
we've got to decide what do we want to
do how do we want to get this
information tradeoff there's always
tradeoffs to play giving that ux
Designer is nice to work together in
person and with the pandemic in the past
two and a half years and obviously
everybody's working remotely how does a
group of ux designers work together and
still come up with fantastic design or
share the insights with the product team
how do you guys do it and also what
tools do you guys use to drive a
brainstorming specifically on the design
side I think during Co there are some
great tools out there like for example
figma gets used a lot and figma is a
great tool for collaborative design it
even has research or sorry review
features in it like um that you can put
comments in figma and this is something
that like the design team that I've
worked with use in terms of research and
like brainstorming building Frameworks
working through design challenges I've
used a lot of different tools fig Jam
which is associated with figma is one
Meo which is another product are you
talking about it's called Uh figma how'
you spell that yeah figma is spelled fig
GMA a yes it's a cool design tool and
you can use it you can put libraries in
it so a lot of assets are consistent and
it really helps designers design quickly
and consistent with with branding
principles of whatever product that
they're working on with quick access to
assets and libraries which is really
great they have a uh product with INF
figma or owned by figma called fig jam
and that's really a really simple tool
to be able to do whiteboarding exercises
brainstorming and different types of
collaborative activities I use uh fig
Jam a lot
alongside Meo to be able to do these
kinds of activities
remotely the user experience and Designs
are so important and this is something
that marketers tend to
overlook do you have any suggestion how
marketing people should work with the ux
designers so I think one thing that
marketers can definitely do that would
be really helpful is for them to start
building relationships with people on
the ux side even if they're not working
together understand what they do
understand their work understand the
design challenges that they're facing
because they have this really in-depth
understanding often driven by ux
research of the customer that is
currently using the product and a lot of
things when it comes to Value
propositions or what features are really
working well for customers what are
really frequently used features what
features bring the most value to users
those are all things that we spend a lot
of time working on evaluating and
Advising on and those are things that
could be incredibly useful when creating
marketing messaging when building white
papers artifacts information that can
really help promote a product and this
is also really in great information to
be able to share especially on the B2B
side with your sales teams of like what
users are finding particularly exciting
or useful about the product or even just
from a ux perspective how what problems
are we solving for users and how does
the product do it because that is
actually what we spend our time doing
when I was on the marketing side when
there were challenges from a customer
perspective of a with a product my job
was to disposition those challenges and
reposition the product so that they
wanted to still use it what would have
been so helpful to know is that were
these known user problems to begin with
like how could I have been better
prepared when creating my spin to be
able to identify what are the advantages
or disadvantages of a product so I think
that's one area and most of the time
even though when I was positioning
software products I did not talk to a ux
designers extensively or even you know
or lag of if you will and uh now come to
think of it to actually understand how
they designed and what kind of
information they have definitely would
have helped me in terms of re writing
the messaging and also positioning
statements I I hear you 100% so sounds
like your recommendation is if you are
B2B marketers and especially on software
or SAS based platforms not just have the
relationship with your product team or
your product uh marketing people but
also trying to understand the some of
design elements and the working very
closely with the ux ux designers and
they have the information that you can
tap into and possibly can also help you
in terms of your marketing Outreach and
I think the other thing too I would
recommend is being really aware that ux
is really kind of everyone's problem in
the organization everyone's opportunity
for a solution ux doesn't end when
somebody is just in your product ux is
the entire experience of how they
discover the product and how the product
helps them in their life and so design
feels again like this scary different
thing but it's really just the process
we use to solve problems so whether you
are designing creative or you are
designing a product you're still trying
to solve a problem for the user and um I
think keeping that in mind could be
really helpful yeah I 100% agree with
you what you are trying to say is
broaden in terms of how you look at the
the product it's not just the finished
product with the product feature but in
terms of look look a little bit deeper
into it look at the design of the
product and look at how it's actually
done and bring that Essence out love it
love it the next question I have is what
are some of the key Design Elements like
kind of like a design 101 that you have
learned over time that you think sales
and marketing people should be aware of
one of the things that you mentioned
also is understanding feature
prioritization importance of different
features to customers that is something
on the user research side that we spend
a lot of time understanding we're
usually trying to understand that in
terms of how do we influence a product
road map so what should we invest
resources in developing and building
first what should we invest resources in
trying to improve or change but from a
customer perspective when it comes to
marketing it can be highly useful to
know what do customers most value how to
position that how to message that and
that's one area where I think the design
process can really intersect well with
the marketing process I think again and
I keep repeating it but I feel like it's
something that was such an eye opener to
me that design really is just the
process of solving problems for our
customer customer so being able to take
that mindset into the work I did on the
marketing side of the problem I'm trying
to solve is discoverability the problem
I'm trying to solve is having somebody
understand what my product does and
being able to actually take on that
design lens and I think finally and this
is something that happens in a lot of
organizations I want to say across the
board I think we've all heard of
something called Tech debt and that's
when you are rushing to build a product
often times you are a little bit sloppy
in terms of the code or whatnot because
getting the product out there quickly
and meeting the needs of the customer
with that product in whatever way you
can is more important than Perfection on
the technical side what happens on the
research side is we do that too we are
also oftentimes Under Pressure get a
product out there and what we might not
always do is be able to build up the
depth of knowledge that we might have
needed to really understand this
customer deeply and I think actually on
the marketing side you feel this the
most of any organization truly agree
especially trying to understand your
customers deeply that's the term I use
all the time you know it's not just like
have a bias persona but really
understand your customers when I say
understand your customers can you
understand your customer deeply so I
think we are pretty much on the same
page and you use like design depth I
love that yeah Insight depth so
absolutely and that's exactly where um
one of the things that we're trying to
do as a function or in our craft is be
able to shift away there's something in
design called The Double Diamond where
the first part of the diamond is very
much about Divergence Discovery and
understanding the customer and then the
second part is about Des defining the
problem and and being able to actually
start prototyping or Building Solutions
around it a lot of research today kind
of focuses more on that evaluative
second Diamond but that first diamond is
so important and it's really important
that we understand that because it's not
just helpful for us from a solving
problems for our user perspective it's
help ful for people Downstream like
marketing that get to take these
products and Market them because they
really understand the user it also helps
us understand predictability in terms of
user or customer behavior when you
understand the customer deeply you're
more likely to know how they're going to
behave or what they're going to need
when we are only focusing on does this
prototype work does someone know how to
navigate it we lose all of that other
richness that's really helpful so um I
think as marketers um you know being
able to understand kind of these
processes that we use from a design
perspective to design great products and
using marketing research to complement
our work and understand how to utilize
the user research Parts could be really
interesting when you share all these
Insight it makes me think that you
obviously made a very smooth transition
from being a marketer to a ux designer
do you have any advice to share with all
of us in chance of how to make that
transition I actually consider myself to
be somewhat of a career change artist
because I moved from Finance into
marketing many many years ago oh you did
me
too like if you have this deep innate
desire to build or create you have to
you have to keep changing it up and like
moving and also it's kind of like a
selfimprovement you know what I'm saying
it's also self-growth would you agree
absolutely after I I'm in the field for
too long I was like you know what I kind
of need to do something else you know I
bet this is not the last career change
I've made career-wise for me
professionally um I can see myself doing
so many more and different things but
for now I really love where I am so it
worked out well but I think some of the
things to keep in mind especially if you
are trying to shift from marketing into
like the field of ux or really from
anywhere into the field of ux is that ux
is a really new field and that's
actually a huge Advantage when you want
to be a career shifter most people in
this field had careers before this field
they came from somewhere else Academia
is kind of the most common one that we
see and hear about a lot because people
have traditionally studied social
sciences and um they're social
scientists they they they understand
these research methodologies but I
promise you nothing that I do in my work
is rocket science and if anything figure
out the transferable skills that you
have what are some of the transferable
skills that you have you possess that
actually help that transition St from
Finance to marketing marketing to
design so I think I already thought a
lot like a researcher I loved building
Frameworks I loved putting information
into ways that was digestible so that
was a really great easy skill to be able
to transition and even the way I think
about my transition is on that and I
have a mental model that I utilize when
I'm evaluating researchers to hire even
just evaluating my own performance and
what's interesting is is that I would
say 9 90% of my background was
transferable because the only area in my
research mental model is in terms of
research experience and methodology that
was not a hardcore strong part of my
marketing experience but it was
something I was able to develop and
learn through job crafting but other
things like communication stakeholder
management and influence product sense
and Leadership yeah communication skill
it's a very holistic communication
skills that you are talking about right
the stakeholder management the
communications how do you communicate
with a a diverse of teams and I think
that is a very important transferable
skills St what makes a great ux
researcher only one of the areas is the
area I didn't have the deepest deepest
experience in but how could I go out
there and get that experience whether it
was through networking whether it was
through job crafting whether it was
through repositioning work I had done
with a new lens and then being able to
understand how to position in it and and
shift and that's how I was able to shift
so I think anyone can do this if you
have an interest in it it's it's
absolutely possible another thing I
think is also the inability to learn
obviously if you really want to make
that transition and uh it's from a one
Feld to a complete new feel you need to
be able to have the passion also the
ability and the desire to learn and I
think having that can actually Propel
you forward 100% and actually that is
one thing if you want to be a researcher
learning has to be part of your innate
thing cuz all we do is learn and I
actually for me I'm a lifelong learner
so for me I don't think there could have
been a better field so that's changed to
a completely different topic why show
are your binge watching right now okay
so I love period pieces and period
dramas so I have to say the Gilded Age
true I started watching that like about
five weeks ago I was like they did a
fantastic job kind of reminds me a
little bit of D Abby yeah and I think
it's supposed to it's the prequel sort
of vas thank you so much for coming to
my show it's so wonderful to have you
and I'm so happy that you made that
successful transition from marketing to
the design field I'm looking forward for
your next transition oh thank you so
much Pam I really appreciate you
inviting me it was a pleasure all right
awesome thanks a lot take care everyone
bye bye bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of B2B marketing
and more by following us here on YouTube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]